In the past decades, the security of confidential digital
images or video objects through a transmission channel against third party attacks becomes more and
more attention in the field of information security. The
encryption algorithms such as (i) private key encryption
methods- DES or Blowfish [1], (ii) public key encryption
methods- RSA or El-Gamal [2] are generally not suitable
in view of the slow speed of operation, complexity and
inability to handling different data formatting. Recently,
the idea of using chaos in cryptosystems [3-16] have been
explored by many researchers, because the chaotic map
satisfied the requirements of a good cryptosystem like
simplicity in implementation, sensitivity to initial conditions and parameters, ergodicity, high encryption rate,
excellent security, etc. Basically, chaotic sequences are
used to confuse the relation between original image and
encrypted image by means of varying the pixel values
and pixel position.
In this paragraph we will discuss in brief some chaos
based image encryption techniques reported in the literature in the recent years. In reference [3] Chen et al.
proposed to convert a two-dimensional chaotic map to
a three-dimensional chaotic map for image encryption
by using pixel shuffling and confusing the pixel value
from the original image. Two logistic maps with different initial conditions are used in image encryption in [4].
They used 80-bit secret key for the generation of initial
conditions of logistic maps and eight different types of
operation for the encryption of plane image. A fast image
encryption system is proposed in [5] by using chaotic
sequences generated by the cascade of chaotic maps.
In references [6,7] Gao et al. proposed a scheme of total
shuffling of the image pixel position and then they used
a hyper chaotic system to confuse the pixel value with
respect to the original image. Four different third order
chaotic systems are used for chaotic sequences generation and pixel shuffling for color image encryption in [8].
In reference [9] Wang and Yu proposed a block encryption technique using dynamic sequences generated by
one dimensional multiple chaotic system. Recently, a
chaotic block cipher scheme for image encryption based
on chaotic tent map is proposed in [10]. In reference [11]
Lin and Wang described image encryption algorithm
based on chaos with the piecewise linear memristor in
Chua’s circuit. An image encryption scheme based on
chaotic discrete quadratic map and parameter perturbation technique is also described recently in [12].
However, some reported encryption algorithms [13-17]
are either inefficient or weak in view of computational
complexity and strength of security. In this paper, we
have proposed a novel scheme for image encryption
based on chaotic logistic map. The proposed scheme uses
logistic map with suitable initial condition for varying the
pixel values randomly with respect to its initial values
of the original image. Next the chaotic sequences of the
logistic map are used for pixel shuffling. The proposed
algorithm uses a secret key of 32 characters (256-bits) to
generate the initial conditions of the logistic map.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: In section
2 the nature of the chaotic logistic map is described. Section 3 presented the image encryption and decryption
algorithms step by step. Experimental results are presented in the section 4. Section 5 presented the security
analysis of the proposed encryption scheme such as key
space analysis, key and plane image sensitivity analysis,
statistical analysis, differential analysis, etc. The conclusion is drawn in the section 6.
A good chaotic encryption system should be robust
against all types of attacks such as cryptanalytic, statistical and brute-force attacks. In this section, we will
discuss the security analysis of the proposed algorithm
by addressing key space and key sensitivity analysis, statistical analysis, and Differential analysis. The resistance
against different types of attacks is a useful measure
of the performance of a cryptosystem. Therefore some
security analysis results are incorporated in the following subsection to prove the validity of the proposed
cryptosystem.
5.1 Key Space Analysis and Key Sensitivity Analysis
A good cryptosystem should have sufficiently large key
space to make the brute-force attack infeasible [19,20].
Key spaces imply the total number of different keys
which can be used for the purpose of encryption and
decryption. The algorithm proposed in the paper uses
a 32 character, i.e., 32×8=256 bits key, so that the key
space is 2256, which is large enough to avoid brute-force
attack according to the present computational speed.
On the other hand the encryption and decryption
algorithm is highly sensitive to the secret key. The
change of a single bit in the secret key should produce
a completely different encrypted/decrypted image.
Two encrypted images using two different keys zxcv
bnmlkjhgfdsa1234567890!@#$%x and zxcvbnmlkjhgf
dsa1234567890!@#$%y (these two key have only one
bit different) are more than 99% different in terms of
pixel values. The encrypted image cannot be decrypted
correctly with a slightly different key as shown in
Figures 4d–7d. This analysis proved that the algorithm
of the cryptosystem is highly sensitive to the secrete key
and it guarantees the security against known plain-text
attacks.
5.2 Statistical Analysis
Statistical analysis is crucial importance for a cryptosystem. An ideal cryptosystem should be resistive against
any statistical attack. To prove the robustness of the
proposed algorithm, we have performed the following
statistical test such as histogram analysis, correlation
analysis, etc.
5.2.1 Histogram Analysis
Image histogram describes how the image pixels are
distributed by plotting the number of pixels (along
the y-axis) at each intensity level (along the x-axis).
A good image encryption system should provide
uniform image histogram for all encrypted images
irrespective the nature of the original plane image. The
histogram of four different plane images like- Lena, In addition to the histogram analysis we have also studied the correlation between two adjacent pixels of the
plane images and the encrypted images. Higher the correlation coefficient indicates high similarities between
adjacent pixels and correlation coefficient decreases
for adjacent pixels having different intensity. In case
of plane image each pixel is usually highly correlated
with its adjacent pixels but for good encrypted image
these correlations will be very small. The correlation
co-efficient  can be calculated by using the following
formula [3]:
Where I is the number of pixel pairs. To calculate correlation coefficient first randomly selects 1000 or more
pairs of two adjacent pixels from both the images (i)
plane image and (ii) ciphered image. According to the
above equations the correlation coefficient of the plane
image of Lena is 0.9242 and its ciphered image is -0.0564
along the horizontal direction. Similar results for vertical
and diagonal direction are also obtained and shown in
Table 1. Same results for the other two images Road and
Liver are also obtained as shown in Table 1. The correlation distribution of two horizontally adjacent pixels and
two vertically adjacent pixels of plane image with its
encrypted image of Lena are shown in Figures 12 and 13
respectively. On the other hand the correlation coefficient between (i) plane image and encrypted image, (ii)
plane image and decrypted image are also studied to
test the similarity between two images. Here we have
selected 1000 pixels from the same positions of two
images one is plane image and other one is ciphered
image or decrypted image. Table 2 shows the correlation coefficient between the (i) plane image and the
ciphered image and (ii) plane image and the decrypted 
according to the above equation the entropy of the system will be H m( ) = 8 . All practical information source
seldom generates random massages providing entropy
